Measuring success against the business value
============================================

Once the Business Value you think is achievable has been identified, now you
must figure out how to measure progress toward realizing that value. To do this,
identify SMART measures. SMART measures/goals stand for:

-   **S**pecific – What, where and how – a specific goal is distinct and
    contains no ambiguous language

-   **M**easurable – *From* and *To* – a measurement gives feedback and let’s
    one know when the goal is complete – typically the ‘from’ value is where we
    are today and the ‘to’ value is the target we would like to achieve

-   **A**ssignable – this is the Who – who is the individual or group that will
    achieve the goal – changes in behavior are many times triggered by the fact
    that the person knows that something is being measured. Some define the A as
    ‘Achievable’ – I prefer ‘Assignable’ because the ‘Realistic’ element helps
    determine if it is Achievable.

-   **R**ealistic – Is what is being measured feasible? Realistic goals are
    challenging yet attainable within the given timeframe

-   **T**ime-Based – When will the goal be achieved? Timeframe must be
    aggressive yet realistic

Always ask yourself when identifying the measure: will it help realize the
business value that has been identified? Don’t spend time measuring activities
that don’t help achieve the business value.

Some measures will be a dollar amount, but others may just be a number. Those
values can be converted to a dollar amount with a bit of effort – if it is
reduced amount of time, then you can multiply the amount of time reduced to do
the process by the loaded cost of the person doing the process to get to a
dollar amount saved.

Another goal-setting methodology you can use is “Objectives and Key Results”
(OKRs). The objective is the big-picture vision you’re trying to achieve. The
Key Result is the way you’ll measure progress toward that goal. For example,
“Objective: Increase retention in Accounting team. Key result: 20% increase in
survey-measured job satisfaction after app launch.”

Return on investment
--------------------

Return on Investment (ROI) calculation is reviewing the cost of building the
solution to ensure that the value is more than that cost.

In many cases, when a business user is solving the problem, it is being done in
their ‘spare time’ and doesn’t necessarily need to be accounted for as a “cost.”
However, if there is a need to determine the return on the investment (ROI),
then understanding the time it will take to build the solution is important. To
help you estimate that, proceed to the next section, Creating a project plan.

Example: Measuring success for the expense reporting solution
-------------------------------------------------------------

To decide on our goals, we looked back at our project objective:

>   Expense reporting: Create a process that is efficient for employees and the
>   accounting department, allows faster budget tracking, and reduces our
>   exposure in audits.

There are a couple meaningful Success Measures that can be considered in our
example.

Initially, tracking the number of expense reports for re-work was considered,
but if the app is built to impose the business rules, like requiring a receipt
for a charge greater than \$75 – then the employee submitting the expense report
won’t be able to submit until they provide the receipt – so the measure won’t be
very meaningful.

One measure that will be valuable is being able to track the amount of time an
employee is taking to complete their expense report; after all, we based the
cost savings on the user being able to go from 1 hour down to 20 minutes. It may
be worth considering tracking the actual time the user is in the App to validate
this number and report against it.

Now that Nick and the other managers are responsible for approving the expense
reports, it may be worth tracking the time between the expense report is
submitted by the employee to the time Nick and the other managers approve them.
Tracking this and having awareness by the managers that it is being tracked will
help improve this behavior. People tend to focus on what is being measured.

The SMART goals we decided on are:

-   For at least 80% of expense reports, expense report creators spend no more
    than 20 minutes actively working on creating reports.

-   For at least 90% of expense reports, the time between submitting the report
    and having a payment logged in the finance system is less than 3 business
    days.

-   Department managers will access a Weekly Budget report that is up-to-date
    for all expenses within 1 hour of their approval, by the end of this year.

-   Within 1 month of solution availability, 100% of expense reports use the
    digital system.

-   Reduce errors found in semi-annual audit by 50%.
